<passage>
	<id>0</id>
	<name>easy</name>
	<text>Your Body is a Clock

Wristwatches keep time, but our bodies are also a clock. The body clock is called a circadian rhythm. Our internal circadian biological clocks regulate the timing of periods of sleepiness and wakefulness throughout the day. In general, circadian rhythms are generated <b>(1) endogenously</b>, although they can be regulated by external factors such as sunlight and temperature in an organism's environment. The circadian rhythm dips and rises at different times of the day, so adults' strongest sleep drive generally occurs between 2:00-4:00 am and 1:00-3:00 pm. However, there is some variation depending on whether you are a "morning person" or "evening person."

Changes to this circadian rhythm occur during adolescence. During adolescence, most teens experience a sleep phase delay. This phase delay makes them feel alert later at night, making it difficult for them to fall asleep before 11:00 pm. Since most teens start school early in the morning, this sleep phase delay can make it difficult for them to get the sleep they need-- an average of 9 hours. 

Circadian rhythm disorders, that is to say, disruptions in a person's circadian rhythm, sometimes occur. What causes circadian rhythm disorders? Circadian rhythm disorders can be caused by many factors, including: shift work, pregnancy, time zone changes, medications, or changes in your routine, such as staying up late or sleeping in.

One common circadian rhythm disorder is jet lag, also known as Rapid Time Zone Change Syndrome. Jet lag puts us in conflict with our natural sleep patterns. When you pass through different time zones, your body's clock will be different from your wristwatch. For example, if you fly from California to New York, you "lose" 3 hours of time. So when you wake up at 7:00 am, your body still thinks it's 4:00 am, making you feel tired and disoriented. Your body's clock will eventually adjust, but this often takes a few days. 

 Another common circadian rhythm disorder is the Shift Work Sleep Disorder. The Shift Work Sleep disorder occurs when you have difficulties adjusting to a work schedule (e.g., night shifts, rotating shifts, or even an early morning shift) that takes place during a time in which most people sleep. When you have shift work sleep disorder, there is a conflict between your body's circadian rhythms and your work schedule. You may have to be at work when your body wants to sleep. Then, when you have to sleep, you body expects to be awake. People with shift work disorder may sleep up to four hours less than the average worker. Many shift workers struggle with <b>(2) excessive sleepiness</b> during the hours in which they're supposed to be at work, with family, or during leisure activities. 

Delayed Sleep Phase Syndrome (DSPS) is another circadian rhythm disorder, and it is the most common of all such disorders. People with delayed sleep phase syndrome have a natural tendency to go to bed later and wake up later than what is typically considered normal. People with delayed sleep phase syndrome generally go to bed in the early morning hours, from 1:00 am to 4:00 am, and wake up later in the morning, from 8:00 am to 11:00 am. This may lead to sleepiness during the day, which often interferes with daytime activities. When the disorder comes into conflict with daily routines, such as school or work, it requires waking up earlier than would otherwise be natural, so the disorder could lead to <b>(3) sleep deprivation</b>. 

The good news is that circadian rhythm disorders can be treated. These disorders are treated based on the kind of disorder diagnosed. The goal of treatment is to fit a person's sleep pattern into a schedule that allows him or her to meet the demands of their lifestyle. Therapy usually combines proper sleep hygiene techniques (e.g., habits and practices that are <b>(4) conducive</b> to sleeping well on a regular basis) and external stimulus therapy, such as bright light therapy or chronotherapy. Chronotherapy is a behavioral technique in which bedtime is gradually and systematically adjusted until a desired bedtime is achieved. Bright light therapy is designed to reset a person's circadian rhythm to a desired pattern. When combined, these therapies may improve the life of people with circadian rhythm disorders.</text>
</passage>
<passage>
	<id>1</id>
	<name>hard</name>
	<text>Your Body is a Clock

It is not only your wristwatch that keeps time; your body is also a clock. The body clock is called a circadian rhythm. Circadian rhythms follow a roughly 24-hour cycle. In general, circadian rhythms are generated <b>(1) endogenously</b>, although they can be regulated by external factors such as sunlight and temperature in an organism's environment. They are found in most living things, including animals, plants and many tiny microbes. 

Our internal circadian biological clocks regulate the timing of periods of sleepiness and wakefulness throughout the day. The circadian rhythm dips and rises at different times of the day, so adults' strongest sleep drive generally occurs between 2:00 - 4:00 am and in the afternoon between 1:00 - 3:00 pm, although there is some variation depending on whether you are a "morning person" or "evening person." The sleepiness we experience during these circadian dips will be less intense if we have had sufficient sleep, and more intense when we have not slept enough. The circadian rhythm also causes us to feel more alert at certain points of the day, even if we have been awake for hours. Changes to this circadian rhythm occur during adolescence, when most teens experience a sleep phase delay. This change in teens' circadian rhythm causes them to naturally feel alert later at night, making it difficult for them to fall asleep before 11:00 pm. Since most teens start school early in the morning, this sleep phase delay can make it difficult for them to get the sleep they need--an average of 9 hours. 

Circadian rhythm disorders, defined as disruptions in a person's circadian rhythm, sometimes occur. What causes circadian rhythm disorders? Circadian rhythm disorders can be caused by many factors, including: shift work, pregnancy, time zone changes, medications, or changes in your routine, such as staying up late or sleeping in.

One common circadian rhythm disorder is jet lag, also known as Rapid Time Zone Change Syndrome. Jet lag puts us in conflict with our natural sleep patterns, since the shift in time and light signals on the brain force the body to alter its normal pattern to adjust. When you pass through different time zones, your body's clock will be different from your wristwatch. For example, if you fly from California to New York, you "lose" 3 hours of time. So when you wake up at 7:00 am, your body still thinks it's 4:00 am, making you feel tired and disoriented. Your body's clock will eventually adjust, but this often takes a few days. 

Another common circadian rhythm disorder is the Shift Work Sleep Disorder. The Shift Work Sleep disorder occurs when you have difficulties adjusting to a work schedule (e.g., night shifts, rotating shifts, or even an early morning shift) that takes place during a time when most people sleep. When you have shift work sleep disorder, there is a conflict between your body's circadian rhythms and your work schedule. You may have to be at work when your body wants to sleep. Then, when you have to sleep, you body expects to be awake. People with shift work disorder may sleep up to four hours less than the average worker. In other words, this disorder can cause a chronic sleep deficiency, in which a person never catches up on needed sleep and carries a significant "sleep debt" with them. This kind of chronic loss of sleep has serious implications for health, productivity and safety. Many shift workers struggle with <b>(2) excessive sleepiness</b> during the hours in which they're supposed to be at work, with family, or during leisure activities. The symptom of excessive sleepiness means that you feel as though you're fighting sleep, or have the sensation that you're going to fall asleep during work or social time. Excessive sleepiness goes beyond the natural decrease in alertness that many people feel at certain points in the day--it's a relatively constant symptom that interferes with your ability to work, study, or engage in social activities. People who are very sleepy can actually experience something called a "microsleep," which is a brief occurrence of falling asleep. A microsleep is involuntary and lasts just a few seconds. Of course, falling asleep on the job can be very dangerous, harmful to your productivity or competence at work, and can also be upsetting for you and your family and friends if it happens regularly.

Delayed Sleep Phase Syndrome (DSPS) is another circadian rhythm disorder, and it is the most common of all such disorders. People with delayed sleep phase syndrome have a natural inclination to go to bed later and wake up later than what is typically considered normal. People with delayed sleep phase syndrome generally go to bed in the early morning hours, from 1 am to 4 am, and wake up later in the morning, from 8 am to 11 am. This may lead to sleepiness during the day, which often interferes with daytime activities. When the disorder comes into conflict with daily routines, such as school or work, that requires waking up earlier than would otherwise be natural, the disorder could lead to <b>(3) sleep deprivation</b>. Socially active people, and those considered "night owls," who feel more awake or sharper during the evenings, have a higher chance of having or getting this disorder. People who have a delayed sleep phase often compensate by napping during the day, or sleeping excessively on weekends to counterbalance the deprived sleep during the week. This can lead to temporary relief, but perpetuates the delayed phase cycle.

The good news is that circadian rhythm disorders can be treated. These disorders are treated based on the kind of disorder diagnosed. The goal of treatment is to fit a person's sleep pattern into a schedule that allows him or her to meet the demands of their lifestyle. Therapy usually combines proper sleep hygiene techniques (e.g., habits and practices that are <b>(4) conducive</b> to sleeping well on a regular basis) and external stimulus therapy, such as bright light therapy or chronotherapy. Chronotherapy is a behavioral technique in which bedtime is gradually and systematically adjusted until a desired bedtime is achieved. Bright light therapy is designed to reset a person's circadian rhythm to a desired pattern. When combined, these therapies may produce significant results in people with circadian rhythm disorders.</text>
</passage>
